
 Firstly, I did some changes to the previous blog and then I learned various topics under LAYOUT. The topics that I learned are listed below:

**THE BOX MODEL**


CONTENT - The content of the box, where text and images appear

PADDING - Clears an area around the content. The padding is transparent

BORDER - A border that goes around the padding and content

MARGIN - Clears an area outside the border. The margin is transparent

There are two types of HTML elements: block-level and inline. Block-level elements always start on a new line and occupy the entire available
horizontal space. The p AND div elements are examples of block-level elements. Inline elements don’t start on a new line. They take up as much width as necessary. The
span, a , img are a few examples of inline elements.

padding: 10px 20px;

padding-top: 30px;

margin: 1px 2px 3px 4px;

margin-top: 5px;

border: 1px solid black;

border-top: 1px solid black;

**SIZING ELEMENTS**

We can size elements by setting their width and height properties. These properties have no effect on inline elements. To size an inline element, we need to set its display
property to an inline-block. By default, the width and height properties are applied to the content box. So padding and borders increase the size of the visible box. This behavior can be changed by setting
the box-sizing property to border-box.

width: 5rem;

height: 20%;

box-sizing: border-box;

**OVERFLOWING**

Overflow occurs when an element’s content is too large to fit. Using the overflow property we can specify what should happen when overflow occurs.

overflow: hidden;

overflow: scroll;

overflow: auto;


**MEASUREMENT UNITS**

Measurement units in CSS fall into two categories: absolute and relative units. Examples of absolute units are px, pt, in, cm, etc. Examples of relative units are %, vw, vh, em and
rem.

**POSITIONING**

The position property specifies the type of positioning method used for an element (static, relative, fixed, absolute, or sticky).


`div.relative {
  position: relative;
  width: 400px;
  height: 200px;
  border: 3px solid #73AD21;
}`

`div.absolute {
  position: absolute;
  top: 80px;
  right: 0;
  width: 200px;
  height: 100px;
  border: 3px solid #73AD21;
}`

_SEE YOU SOON_

