
Today, I practiced **LAYOUT** and **TYPOGRAPHY** and follow the code as instructed. Following is the list of topics that I practice today:

~The box model

~Sizing Elements

~Overflowing

~Measurements Units

~Positioning

~Floating elements

~Flexbox

~Grid

~Hiding Elements

~Media Queries

~Styling Fonts

~Embedding Web Fonts

The concepts that were new to me are discussed below:

**FLASH OF UNSTYLED TEXT**

A common practice for content-heavy websites is to use the system font stack which represents the default font used by an operating system. We achieve a better performance with the system font stack because no fonts need to be downloaded and the FOUT FOIT doesn’t happen either. Plus, the page looks more familiar to the user because they
see the same default font used by their device. On the flip side, the default font varies from one device to another.

**FONT SERVICES**

It’s best to size fonts using the rem unit. This will set the font size relative to the font size of the root (html) element. Using media queries, we can resize the base font size, and as a result, the font size for all elements will be re-calculated with no extra code.

**SYSTEM FONT STACK**

Defaulting the system font of a particular operating system can boost performance because the browser doesn’t have to download any font files, it’s using one it already had. That’s true of any “web-safe” font, though. The beauty of “system” fonts is that it matches what the current OS uses, so they can be a comfortable look.

`body {
  font-family: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, "Segoe UI", Roboto, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif, "Apple Color Emoji", "Segoe UI Emoji", "Segoe UI Symbol";
}`

**SIZING FONTS**
The law of proximity describes how humans perceive the connection between objects. Objects that are closer are perceived to be related.

**HORIZONTAL SPACING**

The three properties used for horizontal spacing are letter spacing, word- spacing, and width. It’s often better to apply negative letter spacing to headings so they look more compact.

`letter-spacing: -1px;
word-spacing: 2px;
width: 50ch;`

**VERTICAL SPACING**

Using the line-height property we can specify the height of lines. It’s best to set this property to a unitless value around 1.5. This value will be multiplied by the font size ofthe current element so we don’t need to remember to change the line height if we
modify the font size. 

`margin: 3rem 0 1rem;`

`line-height: 1.5;`

**FORMATTING TEXT**

CSS allows us to format text to create visually appealing content. The following properties are used to style text using CSS.

`text-align: center;`

`text-indent: 1rem;`

`text-decoration: underline;`

`text-transform: uppercase;`

`white-space: nowrap;`

`direction: rtl;`

_SEE YOU SOON_




