## DAY 3 AT RYAZ

Today I learned new topic that is **_HTML DOCUMENT STANDARDS_**,**_TABLES_**,**_FORMS_**

1. **PREPARING FOR HTML**

HTML files require certain elements to set up a document properly.

2. **THE HTML TAG**

The **!DOCTYPE html** declaration provides the browser with 2 pieces of information, but it doesn't actually add any HTML structure.

3. **THE HEAD, PAGE TITLE**
 
The **head**element contains metadata for a webpage and appears as the first item after your first HTML tag.

4. **LINKING TO OTHER WEB PAGES, OPENING LINKS IN A NEW WINDOW, LINKING TO A RELATIVE PAGE, INKING AT WILL**

1. It is by an **anchor**element. It is incomplete without the **href** attribute.
2. The anchor element has  a **target** attribute that specifies how a link should open.(target="_blank")
3. It links to internal web pages like home, about, and contents.
4.HTML allows you to turn nearly any element into a link by wrapping that element with an anchor element.
5. when users visit our site, we want them to be able to click a link and have the page automatically scroll to a specific section.

5.**WHITESPACE_,_INDENTATION_,_COMMENTS_**

Spaces are inserted using space, tab bars, and comments to help you understand the code if you decide to come back and review it.

6.**TABLE ROWS, TABLE DATA, TABLE HEADINGS, TABLE HEADINGS, TABLE BORDERS, TABLE HEAD, TABLE BODY***

7. **STYLING WITH CSS **( _Cascading style sheets_)

The language that web developers use to style HTML content on a web page.

8. **FORMS**

It is responsible for collecting information to send somewhere else.

9.**HOW A FORM WORKS**

The action attribute determines where information is sent whereas the Method attribute is assigned an HTTP verb that is included in the HTTP request.

10.**TEXT INPUT AND ADDING A LABEL**

The type attribute is used **_text_** and the name attribute.

for a user to correctly identify input, we use a label element.


**_BYE! SEE YOU SOON IN THE NEXT BLOG_**









