
Today, I gained information regarding the topic **_FORMS_** and learned concepts as follows:-

**CREATING A BASIC FORM**

Label elements make our forms more accessible. The associated input field gets focused when the user clicks on a label.

**CSS FRAMEWORKS**

We use the input element to accept data from the user. The type attribute of the input element determines the type of the input field and can be text, password, email,
checkbox, radio, range, date, file, etc.

**DATALIST AND DROP-DOWN LIST**

Using data lists we can provide a suggestion list (autocompletion). To display a drop-down list, we use the select element. This element can contain one
or more option elements.

**GROUP-RELATED FIELDS**

The fieldset element (along with a legend) is used to group related input fields. Alternatively, we can use the section element to group related fields.

**HIDDEN FIELDS**

Hidden fields are not visible to the user and are often used to specify the ID of the content being edited. Please don’t use them to store sensitive information because they can
easily be accessed via the source code of the page.

**DATA VALIDATION**

Always validate your form data to prevent security attacks and data corruption. HTML5 comes with built-in validation. The most common validation attributes are
required, min length, max length, min, and max.

**SUBMITTING THE FORM**

To submit a form, you should set the action and the method of the form. The action attribute represents where data is sent. The method specifies how the data is sent and
can be either GET or POST.

• With the POST method, form data is included in the body of the request. With the GET method, form data is included in the URL as query string parameters. That’s why the
GET method is often used when we need to enable bookmarking pages. In contrast, the POST method is used when we need to update the data.

• Use https://formspree.io to create a backend for your forms.

_SEE YOU SOON_






