
Today I  worked and learned the concept of media queries and made responsive navigation bars on different platforms such as mobiles, tablets, and wider screens.

It was quite a tricky part for me to understand this concept.

Mobile First means designing for mobile before designing for desktop or any other device (This will make the page display faster on smaller devices).

`@media (max-width: 1250px) {`

 ` /* … */`
`}`


`@media screen, print {`

 ` /* … */`
 
`}`

example- 

`@media screen and (max-width:500px) {`

            body {
            
                text-align: center;
                
                background-color: blue;
            }`

The **display** property used is **grid**.

**FORMS**

Computers need an HTTP request to know how to communicate.

`<form action="/example.html" method="POST"></form>`

_test input_

type attribute-"text"

_adding a label_

`<label for="meal">What do you want to eat?</label`

_password input_

type-"password" attribute for <input>

_number input_

type='number" and attribute is **step**

_range input_

It is to limit what numbers our users could type 

type="range"
and it creates a slider of min and max.


_radiobutton input_

There are some cases where we want to present options and only allow for one selection which is agree or disagree.

_dropdown list_

allows users to choose 1 option from an organized list.

_textarea element_
An input element with type="text" creates a single row input field for users to type in information.

<textarea>  used to create a bigger text field for users to write more text.

attributes are rows and columns.

_submit form_

purpose of a form is to collect information that will be submitted.

`<form>`

  `<input type="submit value="send">`
  
`</form>`

_see you soon_












