## HTML FORMS, VALIDATION, AND SEMANTIC HTML
It has been a great day, as I have covered all topics of the HTML course. I have also made my own notes related to HTML side by side. It has been a great time learning a completely new language and understanding the code of each element. Well, today I tried to understand the below topics:
 
 **PASSWORD INPUT**

type="password" attribute for the input element.

  **NUMBER INPUT**

  type="number" attribute is _**step**_

  **RANGE INPUT** AND **CHECKBOX INPUT**

  It is to limit what numbers our users can type. It creates a slider. (type="range") whereas the other one is to present multiple options to users and allow them to select any number of options.

  **RADIO BUTTON INPUT**

  There are some cases where we want to present multiple options and only allow for one selection.

  **DROPDOWN LIST** AND **DATALIST INPUT**

  It allows users to choose one option from an organized list Whereas the data list input is used with an input element =text. Furthermore, it has a list attribute.

  **TEXTAREA ELEMENT** AND **SUBMIT FORM**

  It is used to create a bigger text field for users to write more text. Attributes are rows and columns whereas the submit form is to collect information that will be submitted.

  **FORM VALIDATION**

  It is the concept of checking user-provided data against required data. It is better to use client-side validation.

  **REQUIRING AN INPUT**

  Sometimes we have fields in our form which are not optional and **_required_**attribute is needed.

  **SET A MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM**

  We can use it when we have to assign a min and max value for a number field.

  **CHECKING TEXT LENGTH**

  There must be cases where users are not allowed to type more than a certain number of characters.

  **MATCHING A PATTERN**

  When we user input to follow specific guidelines, we use the "pattern" attribute to assign it a regular expression or regex.

**INTRODUCTION TO SEMANTIC HTML**
We use a combination of semantic and non-semantic HTML.

WHY USE SEMANTIC HTML?
1. Accessibility
2. Improves website called SEO( SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION)
3. Easy to understand

**HEADER AND NAV**

The header is a container usually for either navigational links or introductory content containing h1 to h6 headings while the "nav" is used to define a block of navigation links such as menus and tables of contents.

**MAIN AND FOOTER**


Main is used to encapsulate dominant content within the webpage. MAINS contain "article" and "header" while the footer is content at the bottom of the subject information. Furtherly, it contains details such as contact, copyright, etc.

**SECTIONS AND ARTICLES**

Sections define elements in a document such as headings with some theme. Articles hold contents that make sense on their own such as comments and blogs.

**THE ASIDE ELEMENT**

Used to mark additional information that can enhance another element but it isn't required in order to understand main content. Aside is used on endnotes and bibliographies.

**FIGURE AND FIGURE CAPTION**

  The figure is used to encapsulate media such as image, illustrations, and diagram which is referred in the main flow of the document whereas the figure caption is used to describe media in the figure tag. It goes inside the figure element.

  **VIDEOS AND EMBED**

  The video makes sit clear that a developer is attempting to display a video to the user. The embed is a self-closing tag. and can embed any media content from an external source.
**_ATTRIBUTES USED IN VIDEO ELEMENT_**
1. Controls
2. Autoplay
3. Loop
 
_ENDED THE HTML COURSE_

THE NEXT TOPIC STARTED IS WEB DEVELOPMENT IN WHICH I STUDIED ITS LANGUAGE AND TOOLS :

Every website has 2 parts:
1. front end
2. back end

**FRONT-END DEVELOPERS** require 

HTML- MARKUP LANGAUGE

CSS - STYLING LANGUAGE

JAVASCRIPT - PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE


_SEE YOU SOON!_








  










  





  

  




