CSS BASICS

Today I learned about CSS in detail and tried to style the web page. The following things I got to learn from today's lesson are listed below:

**PROVIDING CSS**
CSS styles can be embedded in an HTML document, written in a separate file (as an external stylesheet), or written inline in an HTML
element using the style attribute.

**NORMALIZING CSS**
Inline styles overwrite embedded styles which in turn overwrite external styles. External stylesheets provide the best separation of HTML and CSS code and result in more maintainable code. Plus, an external stylesheet can be used in many HTML documents.

**BASIC SELECTORS**

We can select elements by their type, class, attribute, or ID.

Some selectors: 


<style>
  
#para1 {
  
  `text-align: center;
  
  color: red;
  
}
</style>

</head>

<body>

`<p id="para1">Hello World!</p>`




**RELATIONAL SELECTORS**

Relational selectors help us select elements without the need to assign them a specific ID or class. This, however, can result in fragile styles. If we move elements around, our CSS rules may break. We can still use them in situations where we are certain about the location of elements.

Some selectors:                     

`#products p`

`#products > p`

`#products + p`

`#products ~ p`
                                         
**PSEUDO-CLASS AND PSEUDO-ELEMENT SELECTORS**

We can take advantage of pseudo-classes to target elements without the need to give them a specific class. The most common pseudo-classes are first-child, first-of-type, last-child, last-of-type, and nth-child. Pseudo-classes start with a single colon.  With pseudo-elements we can style a part of an element. The most common pseudo-elements are first-letter, first-line, selection, before, and after. Pseudo-elements start with double colons.


`<style>
a.highlight: hover {
  color: #ff0000;
  font-size: 22px;
} 
</style>`

`<style> p::first-letter { color: #ff0000; font-size: xx-large; } p::first-line { color: #0000ff; font-variant: small-caps; } </style>`

**SELECTOR SPECIFICITY**

Selector specificity determines the weight of a selector. When multiple selectors target the same element, the browser applies the selector with higher specificity. If two selectors have the same specificity, the one that comes last is the winner.

**INHERITANCE**

Some CSS properties inherit their value from their parent element. Typically, properties that are used for styling text such as text color, font, font size, etc are inherited. 

**COLOUR**

#fcba03                          Hexadecimal value

rgb(252, 186, 3)                   RGB value

rgba(252, 186, 3, 0.5)               Semi-transparent RGB value

hsl(44, 98%, 50%)                     HSL value

hsla(44, 98%, 50%, 0.5)                 Semi-transparent HSL value
  

 **GRADIENTS**
 
Using the linear-gradient() and radial-gradient() functions we can create gradients in CSS.

background: linear-gradient(blue, yellow);

background: linear-gradient(to bottom right, blue, yellow);

background: radial-gradient(white, yellow);

background: radial-gradient(circle, white, yellow);

**BORDERS**

The border property is a shorthand property for border-top, border-right, border-bottom, and border-left. It takes three values: the thickness of the border, its style, and its color.

border: 10px solid blue;

border-width: 10px 20px 30px 40px; /* top right bottom left */

border-radius: 5px;

**SHADOWS**

Using the box-shadow and text-shadow properties we can apply a shadow to elements and text.



box-shadow: 10px 10px;

box-shadow: 10px 10px grey;

box-shadow: 10px 10px 5px grey;

text-shadow: 3px 3px 5px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);


_SEE YOU SOON!_










                                     
                                     



