
Today, I did an exercise on **typography** and made home page regarding it.I also discovered and learned to solve the github link issues.

A few basic things to know before making the own home page is:

**color**

Defines the color of the text.

~color: transparent;

Applies a transparent color to the text. The text will still take up the space it should.

~color: #05ffb0;

You can use hexadecimal color codes.


~color: rgb(50, 115, 220);

You can use rgb() color codes:

    the first value is for red
    the second value is for green
    the third value is for blue

Each of them can have a value between 0 and 255.
Hello world

color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);

You can use rgba() color codes:

    the first 3 values are for rgb
    the 4th value is for the alpha channel and defines the opacity of the color


~**font-family**

font-family: "Source Sans Pro", "Arial", sans-serif;

When using multiple values, the font-family list of font families defines the priority in which the browser should choose the font family.

The browser will look for each family on the user's computer and in any @font-face resource.

The list is prioritized from left to right: it will use the first value if it's available, or go to the next one, until the end of the list is reached. The default font family is defined by the browser preferences.

In this example, the browser will try to use Source Sans Pro if it's available. If it can't find it, it will try to use Arial. If it's not available either, it will use the browser's sans-serif font.



font-family: serif;

The browser will use a serif font family: all characters have stroke endings.



font-family: sans-serif;

The browser will use a sans-serif font family: no character has stroke endings.

~**font-size**

Defines the size of the text.

default

font-size: medium;

The text will use the browser's default medium size.


font-size: 20px;

You can use pixel values.


~**font-style**

Defines how much the text is slanted.

default
font-style: normal;

The text is not slanted.


font-style: italic;

Use the italic version of the font: the letters are slightly slanted.

font-style: oblique;

Use the oblique version of the font: the letters are more slanted than italic.


~**font-weight**

Defines the weight of the text.

default
font-weight: normal;

The text is in normal weight.


font-weight: bold;

The text becomes bold.

_SEE YOU SOON_













    
