
Today I tried to understand Flexbox and covered animations and transition topics.

For the exercise of transitions, firstly div element is taken with the class of container, and the paragraph element is added
Also, one more class of box is used and img element is used.

Now in CSS,

A container is given width and height properties and a beautiful background color in which a paragraph  is written. As the paragraph is long so I used
overflow property.

The overflow property specifies whether to clip the content or to add scrollbars when the content of an element is too big to fit in the specified area.

Now, for the box, the display that is used is flex and the justify-content used is flex-end and off course some width and height in rems are provided and background color is given to it.

The justify-content property aligns the flexible container's items when the items do not use all available space on the main-axis (horizontally).

For img, I used position property which is relative, and a border radius of 50% is used to give it the shape of the circle.

An element with position: relative; is positioned relative to its normal position. Setting the top, right, bottom, and left properties of a relatively-positioned element will cause it to be adjusted away from its normal position. Other content will not be adjusted to fit into any gap left by the element.

The border-radius property defines the radius of the element's corners.

 This property allows you to add rounded corners to elements

transform is used to rotate 5deg.

 The transform property applies a 2D or 3D transformation to an element. This property allows you to rotate, scale, move, skew, etc., elements.

 `transform: rotate(5deg);`
 
Next, img hover is used, and the transform property is again used to reverse it to 0 degrees.


The next exercise is a responsive image gallery using Flexbox.

here media screens are used for tablets and wider screens. Moreover, for the main class which is a container display flex is used and  flex-direction columns are used to present it in column.

For class items object-fit property is used that is cover and width of 100% is used.


_SEE YOU SOON_









