Today, I learned various concepts regarding **LAYOUT** and **TYPOGRAPHY** . The things learned are listed below:

**_LAYOUT_**

**FLOATING ELEMENTS**

The float property is used for positioning and formatting content e.g. let an image float left to the text in a container.

The float property can have one of the following values:

 left - The element floats to the left of its container
 
 right - The element floats to the right of its container
 
 none - The element does not float (will be displayed just where it occurs in the text).
 
 inherit - The element inherits the float value of its parent

In its simplest use, the float property can be used to wrap text around images.

`float: left;
float: right
clear: both;`

**FLEXBOX**

The Flexible Box Layout Module makes it easier to design a flexible responsive layout structure without using float or positioning

`.flex-container {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  height: 300px;
  background-color: DodgerBlue;
}`

`.flex-container > div {
  background-color: #f1f1f1;
  color: white;
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
}`

**GRID**

The Grid Layout is a two-dimensional grid system. It’s often used to lay out major page areas, photo galleries, etc.

`.container {
  grid: 100px 300px / 3fr 1fr;
}`

`.container {
  grid-template-rows: 100px 300px;
  grid-template-columns: 3fr 1fr;
}`

**HIDING ELEMENTS**

`<style>
h1.hidden {
  visibility: hidden;
}
</style>`

**MEDIA QUERIES**

With media queries, we can provide different styles for different devices depending on their features such as screen size, orientation, etc. The most common application of
media queries is in providing different styles based on the viewport width. By using media queries and relative measurement units we can build responsive web
sites that adjust smoothly to various screen sizes.

  `<link rel="stylesheet" media="mediatype and|not|only (expressions)" href="print.css">`

  **_TYPOLOGY_**

Typography is the art of creating beautiful and easy-to-read text. Given that 95% of the content on the web is text, as a front-end developer, you must ensure that the text on
your web pages are easy to read and visually appealing on various screen sizes.

**STYLING FONTS**

Fonts fall into three main categories: Serif, Sans-serif, and Monospace. Serif fonts have a line/stroke at the edges of their characters. They’re more professional and serious.
Sans-serif fonts don’t have those edges. They’re more modern, warm and friendly. Monospace fonts have equal-width characters. They’re often used in displaying code.
The default color for the body text is pure black (#000). It’s best to change it to dark grey.

`p1 {
  font-family: "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
}`

**EMBEDDING WEB FONTS**

Font files come in a variety of different formats: TTF, OTF, EOT, WOFF, and WOFF 2.0. Out of these, WOFF and WOFF 2.0 are recommended for the web because they’re more
compressed and can be downloaded in less time. We can convert any font file to a WOFF file on fontsquirrel.com. To embed a custom font, we should first register it using the @font-face rule.

_SEE YOU SOON_


















