
Today I learnt and did remaining exercises of the Part-2 Basics.

**NAVIGATION BARS**

BASICS-

A navigation bar is basically a list of links, so using the <ul> and <li> elements makes perfect sense.

list-style-type: none; - Removes the bullets. A navigation bar does not need list markers.
Set margin: 0; and padding: 0; to remove browser default settings.

I used fonts.awesome.com to use some icons and display them for the output. Used many properties how to hover and change its color accordingly.

Horizontal Navigation Bar

The horizontal navigation bar is the horizontal list of links, which is generally on the top of the page.

The properties -

overflow: hidden property that prevents the li elements from going outside of the list, display: block property displays the links as the block elements and makes the entire link area clickable.


float: left property, which uses float for getting the block elements to slide them next to each other.

sample:-
`<ul>`  
`<li><a href = "#" class = "active">Home</a></li> ` 
`<li><a href = "#">Java</a></li>`
`<li><a href = "#">CSS</a></li> ` 
`<li><a href = "#">HTML</a></li>`
`<li><a href = "#">Bootstrap</a></li>`  
`</ul>`  

**TRANSITIONS AND ANIMATIONS**

example-.box {
  border-style: solid;
  border-width: 1px;
  display: block;
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  background-color: #0000ff;
  transition:
    width 2s,
    height 2s,
    background-color 2s,
    rotate 2s;
}

I used two div elements and tried hard to fix the problems and in this, an image element was used.

_SEE YOU SOON_


.box:hover {
  background-color: #ffcccc;
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  rotate: 180deg;
}






