## HOW WEB WORK?

Well, today I took my first step in reaching the goal of "WEB DEVELOPMENT".I have been curious to understand the basic concepts of HTML, CSS.     The things that I came to know are:

 **HTML BASICS**

 Firstly right click on the desktop, choose "new folder" and name it "HTML". Then, open "VS CODE' click on the open folder, select the HTML file and open it. Now, add a file called "index.html" which often represents the home page of the website.
Press ctrl M+B.Now we have to tell the browser that this is an HTML5 document. So type < (angular bracket) and hence `<!DOCTYPE.hmtl>` pops up. It is called Doc type declaration. Now  `<html>`,`<head>`, and`<body>` with opening and closing tags are generated.

We use the head element to give the browser information about the page. So use the `<title>` element and write "My first webpage".Press "CTRL+S" to save.Now by right-clicking  click on  **open with live server** and hence the new page is opened.

Now inside the body tags, type the "img" element, and hence attributes like"src" and "alt" are written. The img element doesn't have a closing tag. The src is used to tell the path or image. Now create a new folder named "images" and paste the downloaded image.
 Write this in src="images/panda.jpg".
 Now **alt** stands for alternate text and it is used to give the browser some text to display in case the image is not displayed. It will be discussed in the future so for now it is deleted. Now use paragraph element to write something.

**CSS BASICS**

We use style element. In this, we use img { width:   border-radius:   float:     margin-right: }. So now we can do changes to "p" by using font weight= bold; etc. But if we want to make our username look highlighted, then do this thing:

`<p class="username">username@sukhleenbhambra</p>` then change in the styling by putting" .username{   like this.


**FORMATTING CODE**

Formatting is very important in reading and maintaining code. We want our code to be presented beautifully therefore, we use a prettier formatter.

Go to the "view" menu and click the option that says **command palette** and hence search FORMAT DOCUMENT. The prettier formatter will show up. We can configure VS CODE to automatically format the code the moment we make up changes. For that go to the "view" menu and select option PREFERENCES and
click SETTINGS and search "format on save".So, enable it and therefore in this way it is applied.


**INSPECTING PAGES USING DEV TOOLS**

On your made webpage press "SHIFT+CTRL+I" and hence dev tools will be opened. In the "elements" tab On the left side DOM -  DOCUMENT OBJECT MODEL- {Model that represents objects or elements in our HTML documents} is shown. For example, by clicking on the img element the result is shown on the right side and one can change accordingly in an easier way.


**VALIDATING WEB PAGES**


Using validation services we can ensure that our HTML/CSS code is valid and follows the official rules. This helps us get better rankings in search engines.
We use validators to identify potential errors in our code. To validate HTML code, search for " Validator.w3.org"  choose option "FILE UPLOAD" and write `index.html`.The errors and warnings will be shown to us. In case the image is not shown "alt" attribute comes into play and will tell the description of that image. So img element must have an alt attribute.

For CSS validation, use "CSS VALIDATOR" and choose direct input which means we just have to copy the information inside the opening and closing tags of the style element and paste it in it. After pressing the "click" option, the errors can be found.








 



 


