
Today was hard as I had many difficulties doing the exercises.

Firstly, I started with transitions, and animations in css exercise. I really found it challenging to do it as it had many concepts that were covered in the previous topics of Part-2 of **HTML and CSS course**.

My mentor helped me in sorting things out. I will do it tomorrow positively. Then, I started with the **IMAGES** topic and did the one part of exercise and I learned various things that I didnt know about it before.

The task was to put an image downloaded from **_Unsplash. com_** and put some text on it and present the output.





~.In the HTML code, in the body element use the div element and give it a class of **stars** and used img in order to obtain the picture.
Below that I used CLASS of **text** for heading and paragraph element to write some text.


~. In the CSS code, various elements were used.

1. I used font family in the body element.

2. In the next element for img , 3 properties were used.

max-width, height, and position were used.

3. Then for text class, Position, top, color, and padding were given

4. at last, text. p was used where the style was applied to paragraph elements.

5. There was a bit problem before doing this above task but it was successful.

Before this, I covered forms and typography topics and I got help from my previous studied topics.


 ~Below down, there are links provided 

 link to GitHub repo- https://github.com/Sukhleenbhambra/Basics2html

 link to deployment- https://sukhleenbhambra.github.io/Basics2html/


 _SEE YOU SOON_




